---
title: 0.8.7 Released
layout: post
author: fred, the rubygems robot
---

Even though it has only been a few weeks since that last release,
there are quite a number of new features in 0.8.7.  A complete list of
new features will be given below, but here is a summary of the hot
items.

* The bug that prevented some users from installing rails has been
  squashed.  A big thanks to Bill Guindon (aGorilla) for helping track
  that one down.

There are several new commands available on the gem command:

* gem cleanup GEMNAME -- Cleanup (uninstall) all the old versions of
  gem.  If the gem name is omitted, the entire repository is cleaned.
* gem dependency GEMNAME -- Show the dependencies for the named gems.
  This is really helpful when trying to figure out what gem needs what
  other gem.

There changes to the existing commands as well.

* gem uninstall is much smarter about removing gems from the
  repository.  Lists of gems are now uninstalled in proper dependency
  order (ie. if A depends on B, A is uninstalled first).  Also,
  warnings about broken dependencies occur only when removing the
  *last* gem that supports a dependency is removed.

Both gem install and gem uninstall support some new command line
options that can reduce the amount of yes/no queries given the user.
For install we have:

* --ignore-dependencies -- Only install requests gems, no
  dependendecies are automatically installed.
* --include-dependencies -- Automatically install dependencies,
  without confirmation.

For gem uninstall, the new options are:

* --all -- Uninstall all matching gems without confirmation.
* --ignore-dependencies -- Uninstall, even if dependencies are broken.
* --executables -- Remove executables without confirmation

Under general cleanup, gems will not, by default, run RDoc on packages
that do not have the RDoc flag set.

And finally there is a new library file 'gemconfigure' to aid in
writing version sensitive applications (without undue dependencies on
RubyGems); and 'gemwhich', a short script to locate libraries in the
file system.  You can read more about them here:

* gemconfigure: http://docs.rubygems.org/read/chapter/4#page73
* gemwhich: http://docs.rubygems.org/read/chapter/17
