---
title: 1.3.0 Released
layout: post
author: fred, the rubygems robot
author_email: nick@gemcutter.org
---

New features:

* RubyGems doesn't print LOCAL/REMOTE titles for `gem query` and friends if
  stdout is not a TTY, except with --both.
* Added Gem.find_files, allows a gem to discover features provided by other
  gems.
* Added pre/post (un)install hooks for packagers of RubyGems.  (Not for gems
  themselves).
* RubyGems now installs gems into ~/.gem if GEM_HOME is not writable.  Use
  --no-user-install command-line switch to disable this behavior.
* Fetching specs for update now uses If-Modified-Since requests.
* RubyGems now updates the ri cache when the rdoc gem is installed and
  documentation is generated.

Deprecation Notices:

* Gem::manage_gems now warns when called.  It will be removed on or after March
  2009.

Bugs Fixed:

* RubyGems 1.3.0+ now updates when no previous rubygems-update is installed.
  Bug #20775 by Hemant Kumar.
* RubyGems now uses the regexp we already have for `gem list --installed`.  Bug
  #20876 by Nick Hoffman.
* Platform is now forced to Gem::Platform::RUBY when nil or blank in the
  indexer.  Fixes various uninstallable gems.
* Handle EINVAL on seek.  Based on patch in bug #20791 by Neil Wilson.
* Fix HTTPS support.  Patch #21072 by Alex Arnell.
* RubyGems now loads all cache files even if latest has been loaded.  Bug
  #20776 by Uwe Kubosch.
* RubyGems checks for support of development dependencies for #to_ruby.  Bug
  #20778 by Evan Weaver.
* Now specifications from the future can be loaded.
* Binary script uninstallation fixed.  Bug #21234 by Neil Wilson.
* Uninstallation with -i fixed.  Bug #20812 by John Clayton.
* Gem::Uninstaller#remove_all now calls Gem::Uninstaller#uninstall_gem so hooks
  get called.  Bug #21242 by Neil Wilson.
* Gem.ruby now properly escaped on windows.  Fixes problem with extension
  compilation.
* `gem lock --strict` works again.  Patch #21814 by Sven Engelhardt.
* Platform detection for Solaris was improved.  Patch #21911 by Bob Remeika.

Other Changes Include:

* `gem help install` now describes _version_ argument to executable stubs
* `gem help environment` describes environment variables and ~/.gemrc and
  /etc/gemrc
* On-disk gemspecs are now read in UTF-8 and written with a UTF-8 magic comment
* Rakefile
  * If the SETUP_OPTIONS environment variable is set, pass its contents as
    arguments to setup.rb
* lib/rubygems/platform.rb
  * Remove deprecated constant warnings and really deprecate them.  (WIN32,
    etc).
* lib/rubygems/remote_fetcher.rb
  * Now uses ~/.gem/cache if the cache dir in GEM_HOME is not writable.
* lib/rubygems/source_index.rb
  * Deprecate options to 'search' other than Gem::Dependency instances and
    issue warning until November 2008.
* setup.rb
  * --destdir folder structure now built using Pathname, so it works for
    Windows platforms.
* test/*
  * Fixes to run tests when under test/rubygems/.  Patch by Yusuke ENDOH
    \[ruby-core:17353\].
* test/test_ext_configure_builder.rb
  * Locale-free patch by Yusuke Endoh \[ruby-core:17444\].
