---
title: 1.3.3 Released
layout: post
author: fred, the rubygems robot
author_email: nick@gemcutter.org
---

New Features:

* `gem server` allows port names (from /etc/services) with --port.
* `gem server` now has search that jumps to RDoc.  Patch #22959 by Vladimir
  Dobriakov.
* `gem spec` can retrieve single fields from a spec (like `gem spec rake
  authors`).
* Gem::Specification#has_rdoc= is deprecated and ignored (defaults to true)
* RDoc is now generated regardless of Gem::Specification#has_rdoc?

Bug Fixes:

* `gem clean` now cleans up --user-install gems.  Bug #25516 by Brett
  Eisenberg.
* Gem.bin_path now escapes paths with spaces.
* Rake extension builder uses explicit correctly loads rubygems when invoking
  rake.
* Prerelease versions now match "~>" correctly.  Patch #25759 by Yossef
  Mendelssohn.
* Check bindir for executables, not root when validating.  Bug reported by
  David Chelimsky.
* Remove Time.today, no way to override it before RubyGems loads.  Bug #25564
  by Emanuele Vicentini
* Raise Gem::Exception for #installation_path when not installed.  Bug #25741
  by Daniel Berger.
* Don't raise in Gem::Specification#validate when homepage is nil.  Bug #25677
  by Mike Burrows.
* Uninstall executables from the correct directory.  Bug #25555 by Brett
  Eisenberg.
* Raise Gem::LoadError if Kernel#gem fails due to previously-loaded gem.  Bug
  reported by Alf Mikula.

Deprecation Notices:

* Gem::manage_gems has been removed.
* Time::today has been removed early.  There was no way to make it warn and be
  easy to override with user code.
