---
title: 1.3.7 Released
layout: post
author: fred, the rubygems robot
---

NOTE:

http://rubygems.org is now the default source for downloading gems.

You may have sources set via ~/.gemrc, so you should replace
http://gems.rubyforge.org with http://rubygems.org

http://gems.rubyforge.org will continue to work for the forseeable future.

New features:

* `gem` commands
  * `gem install` and `gem fetch` now report alternate platforms when a
    matching one couldn't be found.
  * `gem contents` --prefix is now the default as specified in --help.  Bug
    #27211 by Mamoru Tasaka.
  * `gem fetch` can fetch of old versions again.  Bug #27960 by Eric Hankins.
  * `gem query` and friends output now lists platforms.  Bug #27856 by Greg
    Hazel.
  * `gem server` now allows specification of multiple gem dirs for
    documentation.  Bug #27573 by Yuki Sonoda.
  * `gem unpack` can unpack gems again.  Bug #27872 by Timothy Jones.
  * `gem unpack` now unpacks remote gems.
  * --user-install is no longer the default.  If you really liked it, see
    Gem::ConfigFile to learn how to set it by default.  (This change was made
    in 1.3.6)
* RubyGems now has platform support for IronRuby.  Patch #27951 by Will Green.

Bug fixes:

* Require rubygems/custom_require if --disable-gem was set.  Bug #27700 by
  Roger Pack.
* RubyGems now protects against exceptions being raised by plugins.
* rubygems/builder now requires user_interaction.  Ruby Bug #1040 by Phillip
  Toland.
* Gem::Dependency support #version_requirements= with a warning.  Fix for old
  Rails versions.  Bug #27868 by Wei Jen Lu.
* Gem::PackageTask depends on the package dir like the other rake package
  tasks so dependencies can be hooked up correctly.
