---
title: 2.0.4 Released
layout: post
author: Eric Hodel
author_email: drbrain@segment7.net
---

RubyGems 2.0.4 is a bug-fix release.  To update to the latest RubyGems you can
run:

    gem update --system

To install RubyGems by hand see the [Download RubyGems][download] page.

If you installed 2.0.1 and are unable to upgrade please follow the [how to
upgrade/downgrade RubyGems][upgrading] instructions.

_Bug fixes:_

* Fixed error caused by gem install not finding the right platform for your platform. Bug #576 by John Anderson
* Fixed pushing gems with the default host.  Bug #495 by Utkarsh Kukreti
* Improved unhelpful error message from `gem owner --remove`.  Bug #488 by Steve Klabnik
* Fixed typo in `gem spec` help.  Pull request #563 by oooooooo
* Fixed creation of build_info with --install-dir.  Bug #457 by Vít Ondruch.
* RubyGems converts non-string dependency names to strings now.  Bug #505 by Terence Lee
* Outdated prerelease versions are now listed in `gem outdated`.
* RubyGems now only calls fsync() on the specification when installing, not every file from the gem.  This improves the performance of gem installation on some systems.  Pull Request #556 by Grzesiek Kolodziejczyk
* Removed surprise search term anchoring in `gem search` to restore 1.8-like search behavior while still defaulting to --remote.  Pull request #562 by Ben Bleything
* Fixed handling of DESTDIR when building extensions.  Pull request #573 by Akinori MUSHA
* Fixed documentation of `gem pristine` defaults (--all is not a default).  Pull request #577 by Shannon Skipper
* Fixed a windows extension-building test failure.  Pull request #575 by Hiroshi Shirosaki
* Fixed issue with `gem update` where it would attempt to use a Version instead of a Requirement to find the latest gem.  Fixes #570 by Nick Cox.
* RubyGems now ignores an empty but set RUBYGEMS_HOST environment variable.  Based on pull request #558 by Robin Dupret.
* Removed duplicate creation of gem subdirectories in Gem::DependencyInstaller.  Pull Request #456 by Vít Ondruch
* RubyGems now works with Ruby built with `--with-ruby-version=''`.  Pull Request #455 by Vít Ondruch
* Fixed race condition when two threads require the same gem.  Ruby bug report #8374 by Joel VanderWerf
* Cleaned up siteconf between extension build and extension install.  Pull request #587 by Dominic Cleal
* Fix deprecation warnings when converting gemspecs to yaml.  Ruby commit r41148 by Yui Naruse

[download]: http://rubygems.org/pages/download
[upgrading]: http://rubygems.rubyforge.org/rubygems-update/UPGRADING_rdoc.html

