---
title: 2.0.1 Released
layout: post
author: Eric Hodel
author_email: drbrain@segment7.net
---

_NOTE:_ This release has been yanked due to a bug in HTTPS handling that may
leave you unable to install gems or upgrade RubyGems.  [2.0.2][bugfixfix] has
been released to address these issues.

RubyGems 2.0.1 is a bug-fix release.  To update to the latest RubyGems you can
run:

    gem update --system

To install RubyGems by hand see the [Download RubyGems][download] page.  To
downgrade RubyGems see [how to upgrade/downgrade RubyGems][upgrading].

_Bug fixes:_

* HTTPS URLs are preferred over HTTP URLs.  RubyGems will now attempt to upgrade any HTTP source to HTTPS.  Credit to Alex Gaynor.
* Lazily load RubyGems.org API credentials to avoid failure during RubyGems installation.  Bug #465 by Isaac Sanders.
* RubyGems now picks the latest prerelease to install.  Fixes bug #468 by Santiago Pastorino.
* Improved detection of missing Zlib::GzipReader encoding support.  Works around JRuby-only bug #472 by Matt Beedle.
* "Done installing documentation" is no longer displayed when documentation generation is disabled.  Fixes bug #469 by Jeff Sandberg
* The existing executable check now respects --format-executable.  Pull request #471 by Jeremy Evans.
* RubyGems no longer creates gem subdirectories when fetching gems.  Fixes #482 by Loren Segal.
* RubyGems does not require OpenSSL like RubyGems 1.8, but still prefers it.  Fixes #481 by André Arko.
* RubyGems only fetches specs for list, search and query commands when needed like RubyGems 1.x.  Fixes bug #487 by bitbuerster, Ruby bug #8019 by Ike Miller.
* Allow specification of mode for gem subdirectory creation.  Ruby bug #7713 by nobu
* Fix tests when an 'a.rb' exists.  Ruby bug #7749 by nobu.

[download]: http://rubygems.org/pages/download
[upgrading]: http://docs.seattlerb.org/rubygems/UPGRADING_rdoc.html
[bugfixfix]: http://blog.rubygems.org/2013/03/06/2.0.2-released.html
