---
title: 2.2.0.rc.1 Released
layout: post
author: Eric Hodel
author_email: drbrain@segment7.net
---

RubyGems 2.2.0.rc.1 includes major enhancements, minor enhancements and bug fixes.

To update to the prerelease RubyGems you can run:

    gem update --prerelease --system

If you need to upgrade or downgrade please follow the [how to upgrade/downgrade
RubyGems][upgrading] instructions.  To install RubyGems by hand see the
[Download RubyGems][download] page.

_Major enhancements:_

* RubyGems can check for gem dependencies files (gem.deps.rb or Gemfile) when rubygems executables are started and uses the found dependencies.  This means `rake` will work similar to `bundle exec rake`.  To enable this set the `RUBYGEMS_GEMDEPS` environment variable to the location of your dependencies file.

  See Gem::use_gemdeps for further details.

* A RubyGems directory may now be shared amongst multiple ruby versions.  Upon activation RubyGems will automatically compile missing extensions for the current platform when the built objects are missing.  Issue #596 by Michal Papis

  By default different platforms do not share gem install locations so this
  must be configured by setting GEM_HOME to a common directory.  Some gems use
  fixed paths for requiring extensions and are not compatible with sharing gem
  directories.

  The default sharing location may be configured by RubyGems packagers through
  Gem.default_ext_dir_for.  Pull Request #744 by Vít Ondruch.

_Minor enhancements:_

* RubyGems checks the 'allowed_push_host' metadata value when pushing a gem to prevent an accidental push to a public repository (such as rubygems.org). If you have private gems you should set this value in your gem specification metadata.  Pull request #603 by Seamus Abshere.
* `gem list` now shows results for multiple arguments.  Pull request #604 by Zach Rabinovich.
* `gem pristine --extensions` will restore only gems with extensions.  Issue #619 by Postmodern.
* Gem::Specification#files is now sorted.  Pull request #612 by Justin George.
* For `gem list` and friends, "LOCAL" and "REMOTE" headers are omitted if only local or remote gem information is requested with --quiet.  Pull request #615 by Michal Papis.
* Added Gem::Specification#full_require_paths which is like require_paths, but returns a fully-qualified results.  Pull request #632 by Vít Ondruch.
* RubyGems now looks for the https_proxy environment variable for https:// sources.  RubyGems will fall back to http_proxy if there is no https_proxy. Issue #610 by mkristian.
* RubyGems now creates directories in .gem files.  Issue #631 by marksolaris.
* RubyGems raises an exception when a specification includes its gem.  Issue #623 by notEthan.
* RubyGems now displays relevant release note information when updating RubyGems.  Issue #647 by Trevor Wennblom.
* Deprecated Gem::Installer::ExtensionBuildError in favor of Gem::Ext::BuildError.  The old constant is an alias for the new constant.
* When extensions are built the gem_make.out file is always written now, even on success.  This will help with debugging bad builds that report success.
* If a specification fails to validate RubyGems shows a link to the specification reference guide.  Issue #656 by Markus Heiler.
* When using `gem install -g`, RubyGems now detects the presence of an Isolate, Gemfile or gem.deps.rb file.
* Added Gem::StubSpecification#stubbed? to help determine if a user should run `gem pristine` to speed up gem loading.  Pull request #694 and #701 by Jon Leighton.
* RubyGems now warns when a gem has a pessimistic version dependency that may be too strict.
* RubyGems now warns when a gem has an open-ended dependency.
* RubyGems now raises an exception when a dependency for a gem is defined twice.
* Marked the license specification attribute as recommended.  Pull request #713 by Benjamin Fleischer.
* RubyGems uses io/console instead of `stty` when available.  Pull request #740 by Nobuyoshi Nakada
* Relaxed Gem.ruby tests for platforms that override where ruby lives.  Pull Request #755 by strzibny.

_Bug fixes:_

* RubyGems now returns an error status when any file given to `gem which` cannot be found.  Ruby bug #9004 by Eugene Vilensky.
* Fixed command escaping when building rake extensions.  Pull request #721 by Dmitry Ratnikov.
* Fixed uninstallation of gems when GEM_HOME is a relative directory.  Issue #708 by Ryan Davis.
* Default gems are now ignored by Gem::Validator#alien.  Issue #717 by David Bahar.
* Fixed typos in RubyGems.  Pull requests #723, #725, #731 by Akira Matsuda, pull request #736 by Leo Gallucci, pull request #746 by DV Suresh.
* RubyGems now holds exclusive locks on cached gem files to prevent incorrect updates.  Pull Request #737 by Smit Shah
* Improved speed of `gem install --ignore-dependencies`.  Patch by Terence Lee.


[download]: http://rubygems.org/pages/download
[upgrading]: http://rubygems.rubyforge.org/rubygems-update/UPGRADING_rdoc.html

