---
title: 2.3.0 Released
layout: post
author: Eric Hodel
author_email: drbrain@segment7.net
---

RubyGems 2.3.0 includes minor enhancements and bug fixes.

To update to the latest RubyGems you can run:

    gem update --system

If you need to upgrade or downgrade please follow the [how to upgrade/downgrade
RubyGems][upgrading] instructions.  To install RubyGems by hand see the
[Download RubyGems][download] page.

_Minor enhancements:_

* Added the `open` command which allows you to inspect the source of a gem using your editor. Issue #789 by Mike Perham. Pull request #804 by Vitali F.
* The `update` command shows a summary of which gems were and were not updated.  Issue #544 by Mark D. Blackwell. Pull request #777 by Tejas Bubane.
* Improved "could not find 'gem'" error reporting.  Pull request #913 by Richard Schneeman.
* Gem.use_gemdeps now accepts an argument specifying the path of the gem dependencies file.  When the file is not found an ArgumentError is raised.
* Writing a .lock file for a gem dependencies file is now controlled by the --[no-]lock option.  Pull reuqest #774 by Jeremy Evans.
* Suggestion of alternate names and spelling corrections during install can be suppressed with the --no-suggestions option.  Issue #867 by Jimmy Cuadra.
* Added mswin64 support.  Pull request #881 by U. Nakamura.
* A gem is installable from an IO again (as in RubyGems 1.8.x and older). Pull request #716 by Xavier Shay.
* RubyGems no longer attempts to build extensions during activation.  Instead a warning is issued instructing you to run `gem pristine` which will build the extensions for the current platform.  Issue #796 by dunric.
* Added Gem::UserInteraction#verbose which prints when the --verbose option is given.  Pull request #811 by Aaron Patterson.
* RubyGems can now fetch gems from private repositories using S3.  Pull request #856 by Brian Palmer.
* Added Gem::ConflictError subclass of Gem::LoadError so you can distinguish conflicts from other problems.  Pull request #841 by Aaron Patterson.
* Cleaned up unneeded load_yaml bootstrapping in Rakefile.  Pull request #815 by Zachary Scott.
* Improved performance of conflict resolution.  Pull request #842 by Aaron Patterson.
* Add documentation of "~> 0" to Gem::Version.  Issue #896 by Aaron Suggs.
* Added CONTRIBUTING file.  Pull request #849 by Mark Turner.
* Allow use of bindir in windows_stub_script in .bat Pull request #818 by @unak and @nobu
* Use native File::PATH_SEPARATOR and remove $ before gem env on Gem::Dependency#to_specs. Pull request #915 by @parkr
* RubyGems recommends SPDX IDs for licenses now.  Pull request #917 by Benjamin Fleischer.

_Bug fixes:_

* RubyGems now only fetches the latest specs to find misspellings which speeds up gem suggestions.  Pull request #808 by Aaron Patterson.
* The given .gem is installed again when multiple versions of the same gem exist in the current directory.  Bug #875 by Prem Sichanugrist.
* Local gems are preferred by name over remote gems again.  Bug #834 by jonforums.
* RubyGems can install local prerelease gems again.  Pull request #866 by Aaron Patterson.  Issue #813 by André Arko.
* RubyGems installs development dependencies correctly again.  Issue #893 by Jens Wille.
* RubyGems only installs prerelease versions when they are requested again. Issue #853 by Seth Vargo, special thanks to Zachary Scott and Ben Moss. Issue #884 by Nathaniel Bibler.
* Fixed RubyGems list and search command help.  Pull request #905 and #928 by Gabriel Gilder.
* The list of gems to uninstall is always sorted now.  Bug #918 by postmodern.
* The update command only updates exactly matching gem names now.  Bug #919 by postmodern.
* Gem::Server now supports prerelease versions.  Bug #857 by Marcelo Alvim.
* RubyGems no longer raises an exception immediately when gems are missing with RUBYGEMS_GEMDEPS.  A warning is printed instead.  Issue #886 by Michael Kaiser-Nyman.
* Commands using the rubygems.org API no longer try to sign-in when a non-rubygems API key has been chosen.  Bug #826 by Ben Sedat.
* Updated documentation of Gem::Specification#executables to indicate that only ruby scripts are allowed.  Bug #830 by Geoff Nixon.
* Gem dependency API supports multiple platforms for #platform and #platforms now.  Bug #821 by johnny5-.
* Gem dependency API supports lockfiles without explicit sources.  Bug #820 by johnny5-.
* Gem dependency API supports lockfiles with multiple sources.  Bug #822 by johnny5-, bug #851 by sumit shah.
* Gem dependency API supports lockfiles with git sources using branch, tag and ref.  Bug #822 by johnny5-, #931 by Christoph Blank.
* Gem dependency API no longer raises an exception when a gem does not exist in one of the configured sources.  Bug #897 by Michael Kaiser-Nyman.
* Gem dependency API no longer lists development dependencies in the lockfile. Bug #768 by Diego Viola, #916 by Santiago Pastorino.
* SSL configuration entries in ~/.gemrc are properly round-tripped.  Bug #837 by Noah Luck Easterly.
* The environment command now shows the system configuration directory where the all-users gemrc lives.  Bug #827 by Ben Langfeld.
* Improved speed of conflict checking when activating gems.  Pull request #843 by Aaron Patterson.
* Improved speed of levenshtein distance for gem suggestion misspellings. Pull requests #809, #812 by Aaron Patterson.
* Restored persistent connections.  Pull request #869 by Aaron Patterson.
* Reduced requests when fetching gems with the bundler API.  Pull request #773 by Charlie Somerville.
* Reduced dependency prefetching to improve install speed.  Pull requests #871, #872 by Matthew Draper.
* RubyGems now avoids net/http auto-proxy detection.  Issue #824 by HINOHARA Hiroshi.
* Removed conversion of Gem::List (used for debugging installs) to unless necessary.  Pull request #870 by Aaron Patterson.
* RubyGems now prints release notes from the current release.  Bug #814 by André Arko.
* RubyGems allows installation of unsigned gems again with -P MediumSecurity and lower.  Bug #859 by Justin S. Collins.
* Fixed typo in Jim Weirich's name.  Ruby pull request #577 by Mo Khan.
* Fixed typo in Gem.datadir documentation.  Pull request #868 by Patrick Jones.
* Fixed File.exists? warnings.  Pull request #829 by SHIBATA Hiroshi.
* Fixed show_release_notes test for LANG=C.  Issue #862 by Luis Lavena.
* Fixed Gem::Package from IO tests on windows.  Patch from issue #861 by Luis Lavena.
* Check for nil extensions as BasicSpecification does not initialize them. Pull request #882 by André Arko.
* Fixed Gem::BasicSpecification#require_paths receives a String for @require_paths. Pull requrest #904 by @danielpclark
* Fixed circular require warnings.  Bug #908 by Zachary Scott.
* Gem::Specification#require_paths can no longer accidentally be an Array. Pull requests #904, #909 by Daniel P. Clark.
* Don't build extensions if `build_dir/extensions` isn't writable. Pull request #912 by @dunric
* Gem::BasicSpecification#require_paths respects default_ext_dir_for now.  Bug #852 by Vít Ondruch.


[download]: http://rubygems.org/pages/download
[upgrading]: http://rubygems.rubyforge.org/rubygems-update/UPGRADING_rdoc.html

