---
title: 2.2.2 Released
layout: post
author: Eric Hodel
author_email: drbrain@segment7.net
---

RubyGems 2.2.2 includes bug fixes.

To update to the latest RubyGems you can run:

    gem update --system

If you need to upgrade or downgrade please follow the [how to upgrade/downgrade
RubyGems][upgrading] instructions.  To install RubyGems by hand see the
[Download RubyGems][download] page.

_Bug fixes:_

* Fixed ruby tests when BASERUBY is not set.  Patch for #778 by Nobuyoshi Nakada.
* Removed double requests in RemoteFetcher#cache_update_path to improve remote install speed.  Pull request #772 by Charlie Somerville.
* The mkmf.log is now placed next to gem_make.out when building extensions.
* `gem install -g --local` no longer accesses the network.  Bug #776 by Jeremy Evans.
* RubyGems now correctly handles URL passwords with encoded characters.  Pull request #781 by Brian Fletcher.
* RubyGems now correctly escapes URL characters.  Pull request #788 by Brian Fletcher.
* RubyGems can now unpack tar files where the type flag is not given.  Pull request #790 by Cody Russell.
* Typo corrections.  Pull request ruby/ruby#506 by windwiny.
* RubyGems now uses both the default certificates and ssl_ca_cert instead of one or the other.  Pull request #795 by zebardy.
* RubyGems can now use the bundler API against hosted gem servers in a directory.  Pull request #801 by Brian Fletcher.
* RubyGems bin stubs now ignore non-versions.  This allows RubyGems bin stubs to list file names like "_foo_".  Issue #799 by Postmodern.
* Restored behavior of Gem::Version::new when subclassed.  Issue #805 by Sergio Rubio.


[download]: http://rubygems.org/pages/download
[upgrading]: http://docs.seattlerb.org/rubygems/UPGRADING_rdoc.html

