---
title: 2.4.0 Released
layout: post
author: Eric Hodel
author_email: drbrain@segment7.net
---

RubyGems 2.4.0 includes minor enhancements and bug fixes.

To update to the latest RubyGems you can run:

    gem update --system

If you need to upgrade or downgrade please follow the [how to upgrade/downgrade
RubyGems][upgrading] instructions.  To install RubyGems by hand see the
[Download RubyGems][download] page.

_Minor enhancements:_

* The contents command now supports a --show-install-dir option that shows only the directory the gem is installed in.  Feature request #966 by Akinori MUSHA.
* Added a --build-root option to the install command for packagers.  Pull request #965 by Marcus Rückert.
* Added vendor gem support to RubyGems.  Package managers may now install gems in Gem.vendor_dir with the --vendor option to gem install.  Issue #943 by Marcus Rückert.

_Bug fixes:_

* Kernel#gem now respects the prerelease flag when activating gems. Previously this behavior was undefined which could lead to bugs when a prerelease version was unintentionally activated.  Bug #938 by Joe Ferris.
* RubyGems now prefers gems from git over installed gems.  This allows gems from git to override an installed gem with the same name and version.  Bug #944 by Thomas Kriechbaumer.
* Fixed handling of git gems in a lockfile with unversioned dependencies.  Bug #940 by Michael Kaiser-Nyman.
* The ruby directive in a gem dependencies file is ignored when installing. Bug #941 by Michael Kaiser-Nyman.
* Added open to list of builtin commands (`gem open` now works).  Reported by Espen Antonsen.
* `gem open` now works with command-line editors.  Pull request #962 by Tim Pope.
* `gem install -g` now respects `--conservative`.  Pull request #950 by Jeremy Evans.
* RubyGems releases announcements now now include checksums.  Bug #939 by Alexander E. Fischer.
* RubyGems now expands ~ in $PATH when checking if installed executables will be runnable.  Pull request #945 by Alex Talker.
* Fixed `gem install -g --explain`.  Issue #947 by Luis Lavena.  Patch by Hsing-Hui Hsu.
* RubyGems locks less during gem activation.  Pull request #951 by Aaron Patterson and Justin Searls, #969 by Jeremy Tryba.
* Kernel#gem is now thread-safe.  Pull request #967 by Aaron Patterson.
* RubyGems now handles spaces in directory names for some parts of extension building.  Pull request #949 by Tristan Hill.
* RubyGems no longer defines an empty Date class.  Pull Request #948 by Benoit Daloze.
* RubyGems respects --document options for `gem update` again.  Bug 946 by jonforums.  Patch by Hsing-Hui Hsu.
* RubyGems generates documentation again with --ignore-dependencies.  Bug #961 by Pulfer.
* RubyGems can install extensions across partitions now.  Pull request #970 by Michael Scherer.
* `-s` is now short for `--source` which resolves an ambiguity with --no-suggestions.  Pull request #955 by Alexander Kahn.
* Added extra test for ~> for 0.0.X versions.  Pull request #958 by Mark Lorenz.
* Fixed typo in gem updated help.  Pull request #952 by Per Modin.
* Clarified that the gem description should not be excessively long.  Part of bug #956 by Renier Morales.
* Hid documentation of outdated test_files related methods in Specification. Guides issue #90 by Emil Soman.
* RubyGems now falls back to the old index if the rubygems.org API fails during gem resolution.


SHA256 Checksums:

* rubygems-2.4.0.tgz  
  9214ef24e1da07b5d0425b58520e3b2c37bf87dd37eab59cd5fdc86075b6a0d1
* rubygems-2.4.0.zip  
  e0c47141ec04a99b90567e14f38d3af68c1dd08bea8ce8250c63cd01918d0c83
* rubygems-update-2.4.0.gem  
  a169d30852ebfa7972d7a359be4930871cd442798244ad7fae01d94aa6dbec33


[download]: http://rubygems.org/pages/download
[upgrading]: http://docs.seattlerb.org/rubygems/UPGRADING_rdoc.html

